---
title: Why you should stop what you are doing and read this book
layout: post
---

This post is addressed to scientists, specially in the field of life-science,
where I work. I am sure that scientists in other fields work in a different
fashion. If you are a researcher in biology, **you should stop what you are
doing** and take one day (or two) to read a few chapters (or even all) of
*Statistics Done Wrong*, by ...

The reason is that you have not been taught about wrong done things. First of
all, most biologist I know have never paid real attention to their statistics 
course. And second, even if you have paid attention, it is likely that
you did not understood it. It is normal. The statistics courses are placed at
the beggining of the degrees, and when revisited during the last years, they
take shape of ... subject.

The reason behind, I guess, is that most people attending biology and derivated
degrees wants to learn about specific and exciting issues: you want to go to
neurobiology courses, genetic engineering, and bioremediation. There is no
time to learn a so boring topic as statistics. Even if it is more important
than all the other subjects.

But none of this is a problem. You could always learn statistics at work,
during your research. However, you never do. First, your boss may know as
little statistics as you. Second, you'll never gather time. And third,
most of the times we do it, we do it wrong.

In *Statistics done wrong* you won't learn to make a t-student test. But it
will help you understand some concepts that are way more important. I'd
sumarize them as:
- Statistics are not a torturing tool
- Beware of p-values
- Plan your experiments and the statistics you will apply
- Beware of high impact journals and exciting results

The author makes a fully detailed tour, with simple examples, and a lot of
references to published scientific work. And once read, you'll realise
how important is to do good statistics.

And the best of it. You won't even get bored as you read it.
