---
layout: post
title: come on, make a question
---

During this week and the 3th June week, some PhD candidates at my research centre
we have attended to a Innovation course, imparted by the research centre director,
who's a real fan about innovation.

The course has been cool. I have to say that I don't see myself working in the
bussiness environment. I don't even think I really believe in the
*innovation* concept that we are usually tought (enterpreneurship seems like a
false promise, from my point of view). But anyway, I think that my director
is such a good proffesor, and I consider that I followd the course paying
attention all the time. Which is weird for me.

But I'm writting this post to talk about the course. I'm writting to criticize
something I've always felt when I was in high school, and that I belive I'm
experimenting again among PhD students. First of all, I'd like to clarify: this
ain't an attack to anyone. I think that my colleagues are proffesional and
capable. But I feel pretty bothered by some general attitudes. Here I go: my PhD
candidate workmates believe that you don't have to make questions to your
colleagues after they give a talk.

According to my colleagues, it's better if you just stay silent, making somebody
that just made a presentation of their work staying silent, staring at the whole
group, wondering about how did he/she do it. No feed back. Even worse: questions
are somehow a way to attack your friends. Even if the questions are simple, or
even if the questions are just suggestions.

Come on. Please. This is terrifying. Since I don't believe in this concept, I've
been making questions to almost all my workmates (and it is not politically,
correct to say it, but once again, here I go: **I don't belong to the plant
science community**, so if even me I can make some questions, then everybody
can!). But when I went out there, and I tried to explain my thesis and
innovative ideas that can be asociated to it, I didn't get any feedback. At all.
Not even from close friends. I dont' know if I did OK or not, because nobody
told me anything.

I deeply believe that this is a toxic conduct. And I hope that in the future we
(whoever that thinks alike) can remedy it. Because, first of all, we should not
be embarrased about talking in front of our colleagues. And second, because we
should be self-encouraged to create healthy scientific debates. A important step
towards a solution of this conduct might be the PhD candidates retreat that
we are planning, where all of us should explain briefly their thesis in front
of their pals (no seniors in sight).

I really hope that we loss the embarrassment. It's a necessary step to become
real scientists.
